title: man, sorting is hard when you use the twelve hour clock
date: 2012-12-01
time: 10:54 PM
category: coding
tags: devblog, sorting, ruby, hashes, arrays, tags, tag soup

I have a [TextExpander](http://smilesoftware.com/TextExpander/index.html) snippet for quickly inserting the current time. I write `ttime` and it inserts, say, 10:43 PM. In that format. If it were an hour earlier, it would say 9:43 PM. No leading zero.

This is what was screwing up my sorting method.

I want posts to be sorted based on both date and time, so if there are multiple posts in a day they'll show up in the right order instead of just alphabetically.

I could have just written those leading zeros manually or I could've just used a twenty-four hour clock, but I like my snippet how it is and want my code to come to me rather than the other way around.

So I'll share my method because I'm sure in as little as a month I'll find it embarrassing and that's very fun for me, being embarrassed.

The argument for this method, `to_sort`, is an array of hashes that stores all of the posts.

Each hash looks like this:

    {
      :text=>"the body of the post (in markdown) would go here, but it would be long so I'm leaving it out",
      :title=>"Introducing myself to the command line",
      :date=>"2012-02-26",
      :time=>"12:00 PM",
      :category=>"coding",
      :tags_array=>["command-line", "learning"],
      :filename=>"2012-02-26-introducing-myself-to-the-command-line"
    }

And the method takes the info, specifically the date and time, and adds an additional parameter, `:sorter`, and then sorts the array based on that value of each hash, and returns the sorted array.

    def sort_posts (to_sort)
      to_sort.each do |post|
        the_date = post[:date]
        the_time = post[:time]
        if the_time =~ /AM|am/
          if the_time =~ /^[0-9]:/ # aka ONE digit before the colon
            sorter = the_date.gsub(/-/,'') + ("0" + the_time).gsub(/:| |AM|am/,'')
          else
            sorter = the_date.gsub(/-/,'') + the_time.gsub(/:| |AM|am/,'')
          end
        end
        if the_time =~ /PM|pm/
          if the_time =~ /12:/
            sorter = the_date.gsub(/-/,'') + ((the_time.gsub(/:| |PM|pm/,'')).to_i).to_s
          else
            if the_time =~ /^[0-9]:/ # aka ONE digit before the colon
              sorter = the_date.gsub(/-/,'') + ((("0" + the_time).gsub(/:| |PM|pm/,'')).to_i + 1200).to_s
            else
              sorter = the_date.gsub(/-/,'') + ((the_time.gsub(/:| |PM|pm/,'')).to_i + 1200).to_s
            end
          end
        end
        post[:sorter] = sorter.to_i
      end
      to_sort.sort! { |a,b| b[:sorter] <=> a[:sorter]}
      return to_sort
    end

So that's that.